So, welcome to
BlueprintCallable()! It's a lot more fun than it sounds! By the end of the video,
we will actually be logging out, not only the start location of our projectile, but
also the end location to the console here, so that we can see
not only where the projectile is starting from but where it's going to. Let me just get that working. There
you go! So, it's going to be finding both the world space location, which we've already done,
and the barrel's location for all of the tanks. So
I will see you in there!
So, this video on the surface seems simple. We already have
the HitPoint, the end of our projectile flight. What we're looking for is to find
the position of the start of our projectile flight, the barrel's position, because, of course, the projectile goes
from the barrel to the thing it hits. Pretty simple right!  So, in the
TankAimingComponent, that we have just been playing with, we're going to want
a reference to a barrel, which seems simple
enough. So, let's think about how we're going to get this reference to the barrel here. Well
firstly, let's make a member variable so we even have something to store the barrel in: private:
Now, what type is this thing going to be? Well,
let's go look at the blueprint for the tank and see what we've got! It's
a (Static Mesh Component), the Barrel. OK, so for now it's going to
be, just use that, it's a Static Mesh Component. We don't have a C++ class for the Barrel yet.
What we may do later, if it has some properties we want to add to it like how far up
and down it can move or stuff like that, but for the moment we
don't have that, so we're going to deal directly with a Static Mesh Component. So, let's
just take a quick look at where this is in the Class Viewer. So remember, I'm afraid on a Mac
you can't show anything but Actors, but there is a way on the web, I'll show you in a moment.
But for the PC guys, let's un-tick Actors Only and type in static mesh
component, there it is. And you can see that inherits from MeshComponent
and so on, up until you get to ActorComponent. So,
if we just collapse everything you see these top-level classes
here, of which you only get Actor when you have the Actors Only filter on. What
are these? Well, let's just doc this on the right and pop to the web. Let's have a search for
"ustaticemeshcomponent"... ...ue4, that'll do!
And if we can find the right doc, which is the actual API
reference. Let's see, I think it's this one. That's the one! And then you get this Inheritance
Hierarchy, which shows you what we just saw that UStaticMeshComponent ultimately
comes off UActorComponent. You see how that relates to
mesh... Let's just expand that out here, ActorComponent.
The question is, very briefly, what is above ActorComponents, because we need to know
how to find the StaticMeshComponent. Is it UStaticMesh or
AStaticMesh? Remember the Unreal coding standard says that
"Classes that inherit from UObject are prefixed by U." And "Classes that
inherit from AActor are prefixed by A." Well, is it an Actor a UObject or what?
Well, you probably know that it's a UObject, but let's just see exactly why.
If you go to the UObject, inside the documentation, and then, we
were to click the 2,000 or derived classes and dock that on the left, what you
realize is that the collapsed view in the Class Hierarchy is a subset
of these 2,000 classes. Actor corresponds to Actor. Then, you get ActorComponent. Skipping
a couple, ActorFactory here and so on. Alright, they're all prefixed.
U if they are ultimately inheriting from UObject,
and then Actor, which in turn inherits from UObject, starts the A convention, and then, it all goes
A's under the Actor. OK, so we ultimately
are dealing here with a StaticMeshComponent, and it's a
UStaticMeshComponent, because if you follow it up the tree it inherits from UObject,
not from under AActor, one of these guys out here. Alright
fine! So, there's a little bit more about the Class Hierarchy, it just helps you get some context.
Now the reason I've told you all that is because when we decide what we're going to put here,
I want to just not take it for granted that the type is UStaticMeshComponent
because you may not know that you need to start with a U. You could just
mash the keyboard with the words staticmesh
component and it'll tell you it's a U, but that doesn't teach you anything. Now you know why
it's U. So, we're going to have a UStaticMeshComponent pointer.
Cool! Barrel and we're going to be good and set it to the null pointer
as a starting point. So there it is, we have something to set.
Now, we're going to make ourselves a setter method. It's going to be a public setter method, I'm going to put
it below the constructor, and I'm just going to say void Set
BarrelReference(), taking in the same
thing, a UStaticMeshComponentPointer,
and it's going to be called BarrelToSet(). You'll see why I'm calling it that,
like that, in a moment. OK, so let's go ahead and implement
this setter for the BarrelReference. The idea here is that we have a way
of setting the barrel. If this TankAimingComponent is going to have a barrel member
variable down here, then we shouldn't expose that publicly it's generally bad practice.
So we want a setter method, so there's our setting method, and now we're going to implement it. It's
relatively simple. It's a lot of messing around, but once it's done it's done.
So, let's do this maybe under the constructor here. We, of course, need to
prefix this with the fact that the class is this, and
then, just put some code in. So now, we have a
barrel right? It's called Barrel, so we're going to say Barrel = Barrel
ToSet. And that is why I named this variable BarrelToSet,
otherwise it would shadow the name of this variable and it wouldn't be entirely clear what's
going on. We don't want to be saying Barrel = Barrel. We could say this->Barrel
= Barrel...and call this Barrel, I don't like
that. Let's just be explicit about it, BarrelToSet, that's what we're actually doing here.
Cool! So, let's make sure this compiles. It's not going to do anything right now because nothing's calling this method,
but at least we have a way, at least we'd have what I'd call a snowball's chance in hell
of setting the barrel reference inside the AimingComponent, now that we've got a setter
or well setup really. And, of course, you've guessed it, we're actually
going to set this barrel reference on the tank. Ultimately we want to be doing this on the tank's Event
Graph, and we're going to delegate it down to the AimingComponent. So,
we have the setter here now and it all compiles, and that's good! So now, let's
move our attention over to the tank, and think about what the setter would look like on the
tank. So it's also public, so we're going to go void
and we're going to call it SetBarrelReference().
And we're going to do the same thing again, it's going to be a new static mesh component.
And this is one of the dark sides of building things up through composition, rather than
inheritance is we have to rewrite some code, but I think it's worth it.
BarrelToSet OK. So there you go, that's the declaration
of that, up at the tank. Now, at the tank, it's not just going to be a
method that C++ is going to call, it's going to be a UFUNCTION. Why function?
Because it's a method. U properties for properties, functions for functions or
methods. Alright, so it's going to be a UFUNCTION(). Actually the semicolon doesn't work on the end
here, strangely. You need to be careful with these macros, sometimes it doesn't work, it does break UFUNCTIONs
putting semicolons on the end. So it's a UFUNCTION and what's it going to be? It's going to be something
called (BlueprintCallable), and we may as well
give it a Category. I think it's a setup really, because we're setting up the tank.
So this is going to make a method that we can actually call from Blueprint,
called SetBarrelReference. What we're going to do over in the tank blueprint
is, in its Event Graph, on BeginPlay, we're going to make ourselves
a method that says SetBarrelReference. We'll take the Barrel reference from
our component list, either from the Component tab or the My Blueprint Component list
under Variables, and we'll be feeding both the Event Play execution
pin and the Barrel reference into this method that we're about to make. Alright,
so that's the purpose of what we're doing. I'm just going to save everything here before we leave. Unreal has
crashed on me a couple of times recently, I'm a bit nervous. So that's what BlueprintCallable
does! It means it's a method we can actually call from Blueprint, which is
cool! So, we're going to call this setter from Blueprint. Alright, so having done that,
we now need to just implement that setter and actually just delegate it straight out
from the tank. Why don't you do that? You've heard me talking long enough, it's very easy for you to
go into zombie mode now and just copy what I'm doing. Why don't you pause the video
and implement the SetBarrel
Reference method inside the Tank.cpp for me? I won't put a challenge slide up for this one.
I just want you to do that, it's pretty simple.
I'm not going to carry on until you've had a go at it, and I can tell that you had
a go at it. By the way, it's technology you wouldn't even believe; I see through your screen right now.
OK, I'm going to trust that you've had a go at it. I can't really tell that you've had a go at it. You don't need to be
covering your web-cams with sticky tape, although that might be a good idea from the other
authorities point of view. OK, there we go!
So there it is! And all we're going to do is, we already have
a TankAimingComponent, and that TankAimingComponent now has a method
on it called SetBarrelReference(). And
we're just going to pass through the BarrelToSet. How boring alright but we've delegated
out the (BarrelToSet) to the TankAiming
Component. Cool! Alright, let's compile this up, and then, the Blueprint should have
this function available to it. And then, we can just do a quick log to make sure we've actually
got the barrel's location and we've actually achieved what we set out to achieve, which is getting the
start location of our projectiles flight. And at the same time, of course, we're setting up
a nice soft referenced asset architecture. Cool!
So, on BeginPlay in the tank blueprint, do we now have a SetBarrel
Reference? We do! Yeah, that's the BlueprintCallable method that we made. There
it is! Awesome! And we've got this pi?n here saying Barrel to Set, and it wants a
StaticMeshComponent reference. Well there you go! That's the Barrel and that's
soft coded in Blueprint. Aren't we happy! So let's compile this.
I'm going to save it, and I'm going to save everything, actually,
and then just play. Now nothing should happen, because all we've done is hopefully
got that Barrel reference through to the Tank
AimingComponent. But what I want to do now is, go to the TankAimingComponent, and I want you
to change this log, so that it tells us that it's got a
Barrel and ideally tells us the location of that barrel.
So, let's just change this log to say something more useful like the
tank name, aiming at this position from,
and then, some other position.
And that other position should be BarrelLocation. I'm not going to do it all for you, I'm just going to get it going
like so. And then, what I want you to do here
is write an auto BarrelLocation, which
now uses what we've done to get the location of the barrel. Go ahead, pause the video,
see if you can find that BarrelLocation, and log it out now.
You are pausing the video right, even without the challenge slide up?
Just making sure you're listening, it's not always about seeing those challenge slides.
OK, so can we get this BarrelLocation this way? Well, we have a Barrel local
member variable don't we, I hope? Let's just double check. There it is!
OK, so we've got a barrel there! Now, how do we get
the component location? That was your challenge really, could you manage to find that? Let's see
what this does! If you looked for GetLocation, then
depending on the quality of your autocomplete, you
may have been lucky enough to find this GetComponentLocation. You don't
want the one prefix with execK2, but this one down here, GetComponentLocation.
Alright, and then now let's see what type that returns,
before we try and log out a string that may not be. Auto will tell us it's a
FVector. So, to log that out, we're going to need to do a .ToString();
And then, if you did all that, congratulations because that should
now log the starting and the ending position, for all of the tanks. Let's go try
it, and then, we can congratulate ourselves that we have all that we need to calculate
the full arc of the projectile's flight and
a relatively cool architecture. Umm, C
note reference 45... OK, I'm not going to read all of that initially, I'm just going to
look at line 45 and see what I've stuffed. What have I stuffed?
OK, I need to dereference.. Well, effectively do the contents at
operator on the BarrelLocation(), because of the querks
of the macro. So well done if you spotted that the first time, and well
done not pawing over that error message too long the first time, right! It's just not worth
it, you can start to use your experience to not bother. Just take a look at the line of code, see what's obviously
wrong, because that error message will keep you awake at night. OK,
ooh look at this! Now, this is pretty cool, so
that looks like it's feasible. Let's pause it for a moment, look at some of these
values, and then, just take a look at the locations of these tanks and this will tell you
whether they're in roughly the right place. So this tank here, one of these AI tanks is
at 4440 by -2300
by 100.
So yeah, that's this guy here isn't it? The barrel's not in exactly the same location.
It's a bit higher and it's a bit different in X. It should just take one tank to check the feasibility,
maybe this guy on the right. So this one, we can even look
at the World Outliner. This is Tank_
BP_569. So, if we look at 569's log, it's
position is 5894. Yeah, it's close enough that you can see that that's
working. Awesome! We now have the start position available to us in our Tank
AimingComponent, and we've got a chance now of actually doing the ballistic calculations. So congratulations,
pat yourself on the back, and I'll see you soon!